graph manipulation: clone, bind, checkpoint, wait_on (#7109)
dask/dask: docs/source/graph_manipulation.rst

.. _graph_manipulation:

Advanced graph manipulation
===========================

> These functions rewrite the dask graph underlying dask collections, producing equivalent
> collections with different sets of keys. They are intended to be used whenever the dask
> scheduler can't automatically figure out that the computation of a node should be
> delayed to avoid occupying RAM with its output for prolonged periods of time, and/or
> that recalculating a node is much cheaper than holding its output in memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some situations where computations with Dask collections will result in
suboptimal memory usage (e.g. an entire Dask DataFrame is loaded into memory).
This may happen when Dask’s scheduler doesn’t automatically delay the computation of
nodes in a task graph to avoid occupying memory with their output for prolonged
periods of time, or in scenarios where recalculating nodes is much cheaper
than holding their output in memory.

This page highlights a set of graph manipulation utilities which can be used to
help avoid these scenarios. In particular, the utilities described below rewrite the
underlying Dask graph for Dask collections, producing equivalent collections with
different sets of keys.
```

Consider the following example:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> import dask.array as da
   >>> x = da.random.normal(size=5e9, chunks=1e7)
   >>> x_avg = x.avg()

>    >>> y = (x - x_avg).topk(50000)[-1]

Author: I'll size it so that the unoptimized example runs in 4 GiB, so that a user can still observe the difference by glancing at his system monitor.
I had chosen ``topk(50000)[-1]`` as it produces a statistically stable output, wheresa max() is completely arbitrary. However I see your point.

> The above finds the 99.999% highest value of a distribution after removing the bias.
> In the above code, ``x`` is cheaply calculated at the beginning of the graph resolution;
> then its whole output is kept in memory while the RAM could be better used for something
> else, and finally reused on the last line.
> 
> The computation above features a peak memory usage of (5e9 * 8) ~= 37 GiB of RAM
> (measured: 40.8 GiB). This is suboptimal. One could rewrite the last line as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example computes the largest value of a distribution after removing
its bias. This involves loading the chunks of ``x`` into memory in order to compute
``x_mean``. However, since the ``x`` array is needed later in the computation
to compute ``y``, the entire ``x`` array is kept in memory. For large Dask Arrays
this can be very problematic.

To alleviate the need for the entire ``x`` array to be kept in memory, one could
rewrite the last line as follows:
```

.. code-block:: python

>    >>> from dask.graph_manipulation import bind
>    >>> xb = bind(x, x_avg)
>    >>> y = (xb - x_avg).topk(50000)[-1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   >>> from dask.graph_manipulation import bind
   >>> xb = bind(x, x_mean)
   >>> y = (xb - x_mean).max().compute()
```

> ``xb`` produces exactly the same output as ``x``, but it is rebuilt from zero, and only
> after ``x_avg`` has been calculated. The chunks of ``x`` are computed and immediately
> individually reduced by ``avg``; then recomputed and again immediately pipelined into
> the subtraction followed by reduction with :func:`~dask.array.topk`. The peak RAM usage
> has dropped drastically (measured: 5.5 GiB); the tradeoff is that the CPU time required
> to compute ``x`` has doubled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we use :func:`~dask.graph_manipulation.bind` to create a new Dask Array, ``xb``,
which produces exactly the same output as ``x``, but whose underlying Dask graph
has different keys than ``x``, and will only be computed after ``x_mean`` has been
calculated.

This results in the chunks of ``x`` being computed and immediately individually
reduced by ``mean``; then recomputed and again immediately pipelined into
the subtraction followed by reduction with ``max``. This results in a much smaller
peak memory usage as the full ``x`` array is no longer loaded into memory.
However, the tradeoff is that the compute time increases as ``x`` is computed
twice.
```
